designing an enterprise server , network , and storage architecture to support a core business platform and additional services on an Amazon Virtual Private Cloud.
designing the overall Virtual Private Cloud VPC environment including server instance , storage instances , subnets , availability zones , etc.	
Experience of designing the AWS network architecture including VPN connectivity between regions and subnets	
Should know how to design the AWS AMI architecture including machine templates and blueprints	
Knowledge of designing the HA / DR strategies.
	
Strong understanding of the EC2 instance types and ability to create the BoM on AWS based on the application usage needs
Strong Experience in designing & implementing security (with VPC, IAM, Security Groups, UTM solutions, NACLS etc.)
Strong understanding of AWS Storage, Database, Security services
Strong understanding of AWS billing and ability to provide cost optimal architectural designs
Demonstrated knowledge of standard IP networking technologies, switching, routing, firewalls, load balancing, DNS, DHCP, etc
Broad exposure to Open Source tools to include automation, security, networking and database
Evaluate the applications deployed in production and make recommendations to improve security, scalability, performance and availability

- Experience in architecting Cloud automation and configuration management solutions using infrastructure as code and working with tools, including CloudFormation, Chef, Puppet, Ansible, Salt, and Docker

- Experience with a breadth of technologies across operating systems, application servers, database and middleware infrastructure, including Linux and Windows environments

- Possession of excellent oral and written communication skillsMinimum 5+ years of good hand-on experience with AWS foundation services related to compute, network, storage, content delivery, administration and security, deployment and management, automation technologies. 
Strong architecture & design experience of Deploying Enterprise applications on AWS, monitoring and performance tuning of deployed applications on AWS 
Expertise in Infra capacity sizing, costing of AWS services to drive optimized solution architecture, leading to optimal infra investment vs performance and scale 
Expertise in articulating architectural choices within various AWS services and solution methodologies 
Proficiency in AWS Data PaaS (EMR, S3, Glue, Redshift, DynamoDB, Elasticsearch). 


"1. Evaluate, Design & Plan deployment of infrastructures for Public cloud based multi-tenant services in AWS, Google Cloud, Azure, etc. and Private cloud based multi-tenant services in VMware vCloud, Openstack, etc.
2. Evaluate, Design & Plan deployments of Cloud Connectivity like Direct Conenct, Express Route, etc.
3. Evaluate Design & Plan Application migration to PaaS/SaaS in AWS, Google Cloud & Azure
4. Design & Plan load balancing, appServer clustering, network, Infrastructure and Single Sign-on based web application development in cloud
5. Design & Plan deployment of configuration management tools such as chef, puppet or ansible
6. Design & Plan Security in cloud for Servers, Network & Storages
7. Evaluate & Design Hybrid cloud/Multi cloud migrations
8. Design Monitoring of Cloud services using NewRelic, CloudWatch, Prometheus, or Zabbix
9. Design Networking and Perimeter devices such as Firewall, Load Balancers, Routers and Content Filters 
10. Design & Plan migartion of databases, including database design, querying, loading and performance optimization to cloud
11. Automation & Cost optimization methodologies in cloud
12. Work closely with Business, Application & Operations team to identify cloud requirements & provide solution"

 understand current application workloads, Understand and document technical requirements from clients, Define Migration strategy to move application to cloud, Develop architecture blueprints and detailed documentation. 
 
 Create bill of materials, including required Cloud Services (such as EC2, S3 etc.) and tools.
 AWS infrastructure experience on EC2, ECS, VPC, Direct Connect, S3, RDS, analytics, and application services. 
 
 Ability to deploy multi- tier application across a custom defined Virtual Private Cloud. 
 
 Ability to design scalable, secure, reliable and efficient technical cloud ecosystems to support enterprise applications.
 
 Amazon Cloud arcitecture for scaling and elasticity. Experience advising on best practice guidelines for migration of services to the cloud considering the various cloud migration techniques. 
 
 Make recommendations on performance optimization on AWS with know how on bandwidth (Vertical and Horizontal) of AWS services
Design and Develop highly scalable, available and reliable systems on AWS.
Develop strategies for shift of on-premise systems to AWS
Develop cost optimal solutions for ingress and egress of data between AWS and on-premise applications.
Lead the process of selecting the appropriate AWS services based on Non-functional requirements and budgets.
Define and develop the AWS standards, best practices and organizational capability.
Participate and provide solutions during the non-functional testing related to AWS ecosystem
Provide inputs to project management team for project estimation, technology risks, milestones, status reporting etc.
Troubleshoot application issues and coordinate issue resolution with operations, functional, and technical teams

1. Architect, Design and Assist in deploying dynamically scalable, highly available, fault tolerant, and reliable enterprise applications on AWS.
2. Proven track record on migrating complex, multi-tier enterprise application to AWS and providing efficient cloud solutions.
3. Implement cost control strategies and optimization of existing AWS services, understand the metrics of AWS processes for recommendations on cost savings.
Create the next generation of tools and infrastructure for build, test, release and monitoring, focusing on developer productivity, release velocity and product quality.
Define, collect and report metrics that measure progress and performance of the build and deployment infrastructure